ever heard of a sport called cricket
cricket may not be well known in some
countries but for others it's a pretty
big deal so big in fact that some of the
best cricket players have paychecks that
would really blow your mind you may not
know them but you might just consider
consulting them before your next career
change just make sure you move to the
right country - so what is cricket the
sport may seem a bit complicated for
first-time Watchers so I'm going to try
to explain it as simply as possible it
could probably be compared to baseball
but there are quite a few differences
two teams of 11 players each take turns
to bat and both let's call them team a
and Team B I know it's not that
inventive but bear with me in this case
bowling is kind of like pitching someone
who throws a ball really hard at the
person with the bat the batting team
team a has two people in each end of the
cricket pitch a rectangular piece of
hard glass in the middle of a grass
field Team B has a bowler that throws
the ball to one of the batters and a
wicket keeper behind the batter his job
is to try to catch out the batter by
catching the ball after it is touched by
the bat similar to a strikeout but it
only has to happen once the rest of Team
B are fielders that also try to catch
the batter or throw the ball to the
wicket little wooden thingies that need
to be knocked down if the batter is on
the wrong side of the line if the ball
is hit far enough the two batters of
team a have to run and basically switch
places if they make it safely over the
line without their wicket being hit by
the ball they have one run runs are the
points that teammate build up and Team B
has to beat when it's their turn to bat
if they hit the ball far enough they can
get more points without actually having
to run there are a few more nitty-gritty
details but that's about the gist of it
pretty simple right so can their
salaries really be so astronomical that
it's worth of me telling you more about
it yes yes they are you see the average
cricketer salary varies in each country
and the
is causing some dispute in Australia for
example international male players would
have started off with around 270
thousand dollars per year in 2018 so if
that's the starting salary what do the
MVPs get in Australia there is quite a
gap between the top players and those
who still have to prove themselves the
salary for top-tier players peak set
close to 1.4 million dollars this is
thanks to the agreement that players get
to share 30% of the money that the sport
brings in for the country that's really
generous but keep in mind that these
players are all getting other forms of
endorsements as well which makes that
yearly salary only a chunk of the actual
money they see in their bank account
some of the other top cricketing
countries have a middle tier to bridge
the gap between the newbies and the
superstars England cricketers who
started out in 2017 received a salary of
about 265 thousand dollars per year with
the middle tier players pocketing close
to $600,000 and the high rollers earning
just under 1 million see how it pays to
live in the right country but like I
said this is purely the salary and not
the total income so still not a bad
career choice let's take a look at a few
more heavyweight countries when it comes
to international cricket first off is
India here the salaries of players are
also divided into three tiers grade a b
and c based on the value of each player
they sign individual contracts with
grade a being the highest at
approximately $150,000 and grade C
earning 46,500
however if a player shows some
outstanding qualities in regards to
their cricketing abilities they can earn
over $300,000 every year New Zealand and
West Indies cricket team's top players
earned around 140,000 dollars per year
and Sri Lanka comes in at 7th place with
their key players receiving around
120,000 I think I understand why there
is a bit of a dispute when it comes to
earnings there is quite a huge gap
between all tiers when comparing the
countries and unfortunately not all
cricketers can play for one country that
would probably be counterproductive to
the growth of the sport let's hope the
countries can find a way to bridge the
gaps a bit as mentioned before these
players have other means of increasing
the balance in their personal bank
accounts like many other sports there
are a few different competitions each
year that don't find players by country
meaning that they have the option of
more than one contract that generates a
salary and of course there are
endorsements to take into consideration
this means that even if their contract
has a lower yearly salary than players
in other countries they could still earn
more in total if they are really good
and let's just say that most of them are
really really good at what they do take
a look at some of the top earners in
international cricket in 2017 the
current captain of the Indian cricket
team
Bharat Kohli was the only Indian as well
as the only cricket player that was
featured on the Forbes list of the
world's highest-paid athletes and earned
a mind-blowing twenty-two million
dollars in 2017 alone and give or take
however when it comes to net worth
former Indians captain MS Dhoni still
outshines Kohli at a staggering 111
million but hey no one knows what the
future holds in store with India holding
the first two spots in the highest-paid
cricketers West Indies player Chris
Gayle from Jamaica comes in third
earning around seven and a half million
dollars in 2017 Australia and South
Africa have players that tie for fourth
highest paid in their sport in 2017
David Warner and abd Ville ears if you
are thinking of seriously taking up
cricket you should probably know that
they do in fact work very hard for those
big bucks it'll take a lot of effort and
superior skill to even start competing
on the levels these guys have already
mastered you see apart from being some
of the highest-paid athletes cricketers
have also been labelled among the
fittest men's health UK actually has a
workout to get cricket fit not one I
will be attempting anytime soon
I guess money isn't everything are you s
shocked as I was by some of the facts
about this interesting sport like the
video and share it with a friend if you
have some more facts to share about the
salaries in cricket please sound off in
the comments subscribe to see even more
videos that bring you to the bright side
of life thanks for watching
[Music]